


Chapter 1

September 8th, 2010

“I'm free!” I thought to myself on the Friday drive home from work. The sun was flirting with the ocean in the rearview while the city tried on its colors, and I was ready for a release from the surviving that my life had been reduced to. If you can't tell, I wasn't a fan of my job. It wasn't about the pay. That's never the problem. And it was fulfilling to know I was doing some bit of good for society, even if we were too late to save it. The problem was my dissatisfaction with jobs. My mind had always been too stubborn to accept being pushed into a corner, so it spread itself thin over everything it could find. My work was always enough to not get me fired and as little as it took to keep my personality.
Those days, everyone was on edge. Work was a luxury, and if you were out of it the army was right in your business, recruiting you for the war. It was tough because there wasn't much else you could do to support yourself. For parents, the war was a godsend. Just a year in Manchuria, and their kids could eat something and even had a chance to go to college. It was the one unemployment plan that worked.
The apartment was never quite so inviting as it was after a long Friday. Both my comfort and release lived there. Well...partially. Michelle, my release, had been in jail since April. She was sort of a tomboy, rather strong and had a boisterous voice that still held its feminine roots. And her energy was an inexhaustible spring of joy, but volatile when mixed with alcohol. One night she had gotten really wasted and set a parked car on fire. I still visited her in prison, but I saw her much less often now.
And then there was David. He was the comfort that still made it feel like a home to me. His voice was the most soothing thing I'd ever heard, though the words that used it weren't always the brightest ones. Him and I talked and acted like a brother and sister who'd never crossed each other far enough to be resentful in any way. And when the three of us were together, there were never any awkward moments or hidden secrets.
“Hellooo?” I called out to find him.
“Yea. I'm up here.”
“Have you eaten yet?”
“No not yet.”
“Let's get some dinner. I'm starving!”
“I'll be down in a sec.”
I brought the mail into the kitchen and set my things down. He always avoided the mail. Ever since the draft started, he became a mess of anxiety. I told him he had nothing to worry about, that they don't draft doctors, and that he's 25, one of the last in the picking line. And for a year he never got a letter. 
But this is the day the story begins. And it begins simply. With a single piece of paper.

“David!” I yelled as loud as I could.
“David!” I called again, frantically.
He thumped down the stairs and walked calmly through the early sunset's beams.
“What's going on?”, he asked with a glance at the pile of junk mail on the table. His eyes looked around and then focused on the envelope in my hand. It had the blue stripes of the U.S. government all around the edge.
"What is this?" He asked.
He read the sender address, “Department of...”
His eyes looked up at me, but all I could do is stare at the envelope.
"I thought this couldn't happen. They can't just..."
"Come on, that's not what this is. It's probably just some letter asking for money."
"Open it..."
"Don't worry. It's nothing."
It seemed to take my fumbling hands an eternity to open it. Finally, with a violent rip, the letter spilled out onto the counter, and he hesistantly lifted it to read. The tension in his fingers creased the paper between. I leaned in to read with him, and caught a glimpse every now and then of his hands turning to pale icicles. Halfway through the letter he stopped reading and pitched his head to the ceiling. And then I read it: “You have been selected”. It's all I needed for the tears to start rolling down.
I left the counter and wrapped my arms around his chest, pressing my face to his back as close as I could. The warm beats of his heart pulsed through my arms and cheeks, quicker to start, but ever slowing. They reminded me of all the times I'd felt them before, when I would make songs to them in my head. I used to pretend his heart was saying words to a beat, telling me the things he would never say himself.
His cold hands grasped my own, unclasping them. He turned around to hug me, and I caught a glimpse of a helpless sort of pain in his eyes that I'd never seen before. It  made me terrified. David had always been strong as a rock. But there we stood, his tidal eyes wetting my shoulder, while I embraced his waves as he had done so many times for me. All I could do was stare out the window at the red sunbeams until my tears eventually joined his.
We sat down in our places, our heads against the drywall. Outside it was calm. Faintly sunlit clouds were floating past, like a grand armada spanning the reach of the horizon, floating to the abysmal night in the east. The kitchen grew dim. I could still see his face through the twilight, his hopes escaping through invisible cracks in its surface. He was staring at nothing. Just the white wall, blue with the night, and all the questions he was painting on them.
“What's on your mind?" I asked at my quietest.
"Nothing," He said, "...nothing."
A minute of silence passed by.
"What are you making of everything?"
"I see...I see nothing, Rena. I have no clue what's happening. This all just happened so quick, and it's all just a big question mark. I haven't got the slightest hint of what to expect."
I'd never heard him sound so afraid before. I came to his side and grasped his hand.
"David...slow down. We don't have to think about these things right now."
"But who knows when I'll be leaving. Or how long I'll be staying. Or if I'm even coming ba-"
"David...don't you even think about that."
"But it's a possibility."
"It is a possibility, but a terrible thing to consider. You can't dwell on something like that. It will kill you before you even go."
He couldn't think of anything to say, so he let his head sink into his hands and stay there. My hand laid over his far shoulder, my head rested snug against the other.
"David, you've gone through so much in your life. You've been through med school.”
“Heh. Oh no. med school.” he replied, sarcastically.
“You've seen people die, and your family break apart. To you, this will be nothing. A small obstacle in the big picture. You will survive this."
"And what about us? Will the three of us survive?"
"Of course. It'll be hard, but we'll always be thinking of you. We can write to each other and send pictures. We're still surviving, even though Michelle's in jail, right?"
"Yea, but we see her every other week, and she's not in any real danger. You'll be worried sick while I'm gone."
"I'm a big girl. I can take some pain. Plus, I'll find plenty of things to keep myself busy. Michelle and I will still be here living our lives when you get back."
"And what if I don't?"
"You're coming back."
"I might not"
I raised my head and turned to face him.
"David...You're coming back. You have to promise me that you'll come back."
"I can't promise that."
I looked at him with my serious eyes. The ones that no one can argue against.
"I promise...that I'll come back...when this is all over."
"Okay. And as long as you can promise that, I promise I'll be waiting for you here when you return."
"Okay."
I moved in to hug him, and he rested his head on my shoulder. 
He thanked me with salt-stained whispers, "I love you, Rena. I'd be a wreck right now without you."
"I love you too,” I whispered back, “And we're both pretty wrecked."
We laughed and held on to each other for a while, and each moment became so much more important than it  was before. It was like the harder grasp that you forget about until your hand starts slipping. I wished I never had to let go.
“I wonder what Michelle would do…” I heard him through his chest.
“Ohh, I can imagine a ton of things she would do.”
“She’d probably flip a shit, and then some.”
“Haha. Yea…”
	“Well…I guess we can ask her next time,” said David.
“Yea…guess so…” and then I realized that if he was going away soon, he might not see Michelle again for a very long time.
“Do you want to go visit her tomorrow?”
“Yea. Sure. It’s been a while. I don’t want to tell her anything about this though.”
“Why not?”
“Well she’s going through a lot already. I just don’t want her to have to worry about me.”
“David…that’s what friends do. We worry about each other. You’re worried about her aren’t you?”
“Yea, but that’s different.”
“How?”
“Caus I know she’ll be safe at least. I don’t want her concerned about my life. You both have to live your lives without worrying about me.”
“Friends will still worry about friends. It comes with the job.”
He laughed. “I guess you do it well then.”
He ruffled up my hair and I blushed a little while I giggled. But the moon didn’t show the red in my cheeks.
“Hey, you still want to get dinner?” His happy voice came back.
“Sure!”
For dinner, we picked up some pizza and rented one of those quirky comedy movies David likes. I picked one out and showed it to him:
“Oh yea! That’s the one we were gonna,” I nod, “but then we forgot…”
“Yup. This is the one!”
“Sweet! Let’s watch.”
We got back and David flung himself over the couch as usual while I walked quietly to my usual seat next to him.
The movie took us away. Made us forget. Put a shield up for our hearts for a while. We laughed away the pain until the late night hours, when that drunken tired feeling came over us. I turned off the lights and came back to a David curled up in the corner of the couch. I nestled myself in the other corner and laid my toes under his feet.
We were entranced by the quiet of the night. The faint rattling of trolleys and the subtle hum of the embers lighting the city streets. Those sounds once so foreign to us, hanging sweetly in the air as lullabies do.
"Rena. Someday, when I get back. The three of us will break away from all of this and be free."
"Free...I'd love that."
