


Chapter 3

September 10th, 2017


The processing station was a red brick building near the northeastern shoreline. It looked more like a fancy office building than an army recruitment center. Older parents, young teens, and angry wives were all picketing on the sidewalk, their signs bobbing up and down like gulls on the Pacific. Their chant sounded like every other anti-draft protest I'd been hearing recently: a mix of voices yelling three beats of some indistinguishable words. They weren’t going to gain anything, but many of them still had hope. I’d learned that you can’t change the army’s mind. It’s all so black and white. If the army needs men, then they will get their men.
Walking through the crowd to the front door, I could feel the heat of gazing eyes on me. A woman's voice called out, 
“Hey!” 
I pretended not to hear it or that she was calling to someone else. 
“Hey you! With the black hair.” 
And then the fear struck me. David took my hand and murmured, 
“Let’s keep going” 
But the woman interrupted again, “Why aren’t you two fighting? Why aren’t you speaking out against this?” 
I suddenly felt so ashamed of myself for not fighting. I should have been out there, speaking my mind. At least then I wouldn't have the guilt hanging over me. But then David turned around and spoke. 
“Ma’am, it’s too late. The time to fight the draft was years ago, before the war. Not right after it. Congress can barely ratify a sentence without hacking it up and deliberating for a year.”
She went silent and we kept walking.
“Don't let people like that get to you, Rena. You've helped me through all of this, and that's definitely better than fighting some political battle against people who will never listen.”
I smiled something broken and took his hand while the protest raged on behind us.
The waiting lines were like shopping store lines on Black Friday. Almost a hundred people were lined up, shifting anxiously, waiting for their futures to be chosen for them. We took our spot well away from where the line dividers began. An recruiter was going down the line, handing out brochures and clipboards with forms. When he came to us he handed the clipboard to David, saying, 
“Go ahead and fill this out now so everything goes as fast as possible. Did you bring your ID and your letter?” 
“Yea, I’ve got ‘em” 
“Okay, good.” 
He turned to me and said, “This is for both of you to read. It talks about what to expect over the next couple years and how to cope with a loved one in combat.” 
Years...I never really thought about how long this whole thing might take. He handed it to me, and went back to get more clipboards and brochures before I could say anything. 
“Man, I hate forms,” David said. 
“Then why do you want to be a doctor?” I asked with a small grin. 
“Caus I like the actual helping people part, not the forms and insurance and records part.” 
“But the forms are still most of the job.” 
“Yea, but I figure it’s better than staring at a computer all day,” he said with an elbow-nudge.
“Hey! I do other stuff...sometimes.”
“Like fill out forms?”
I let out my joking sigh.
“Dammit David,” I said with a smirk. He laughed.
“Speaking of forms, I think you've got one there.”
“Yea, yea. Working on it.”
The “brochure” was a waste of two staples at a mere 10 pages. It was a lot thinner than I expected for a life-changing event. I opened the cover and the introduction read,
 
“Dear Draftee, 
I am sure that you are a bit shocked by your recent call to duty. In the past, we have resorted to a draft only in times of great need. Based on the events of late, our nation agrees that now is one of those times.”
I could already tell this was one of those cut and paste messages that was made years before the war even started.
“	Going to war, you may be fearful or anxious of what lies ahead. First, let me assure you that the United States Army takes care of its personnel and that no soldier is considered expendable in any way. We will keep you in your best shape physically, mentally, and emotionally, because if one person falls, the entire team will fall. You will come across many lifelong friends in the Army from all across the states, and you will learn to trust them with your life just as they trust you with theirs. Joining the United States Army is not a time to fear, but a time to embrace what lies ahead of you and to protect the liberties upon which this nation was founded.
I wish you all the best in your term of service.



Sincerely,
Sgt. Michael O. Patterson”

That was the second time I’d read a letter from this man (the first was the draft letter). His way of sugar-coating and freedomizing everything was starting to annoy me. But the fact that his initials were a grungy household cleaning tool gave me some peace. I flipped to the next page and found another letter. This one was written to the friends and family of the draftee. I looked down at the signature and quickly turned the page again. I couldn’t stand more of him.
The next page was titled, ‘What’s Next?’ and it was a timeline of events:
“Today: Processing. Physical, Mental, and Moral Evaluation. 
Results: The results for today’s evaluation will be mailed to you within 1-2 business days.
10 days: If you plan to file an exemption, postponement, or deferment from service, you must do so within 10 days after receiving your results.”
“David, David!” I whispered loudly and tugged on his coat.
	“What’s up?”
	“It says you can file an exemption, postponement, or deferment. David, you might not have to go!”
	“I wouldn’t bet on it.”
	“We should at least try it, David.”
“Ehh, maybe. But don’t get your hopes up too much.”
“I won’t…”
My hopes were as high as they could be.
But I read on:
“After 10 Days: If you have not filed for exemption, postponement, or deferment, you must report to TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE for training and/or delivery to your unit.
Training: Most draftees will undergo basic training. Some draftees such as frontline soldiers and army technicians must undergo further training before beginning their tour of duty.
Tour of Duty: Tours of duty are typically 6 months, but may last for up to 18 months.”
My heart sank at reading this. Somehow I knew that if David couldn’t get out, he would be serving the full 18. The end of the timeline wasn’t any better:
“After your tour: You will return home and you may resume your civilian life. However, you may be called again for a second tour of duty should the need arise.”
I was angry. How could the government own and use thousands of young men for entire years at a time just by declaring that it has the right? The draft must be some terrible curse that would never leave us. It was passed down from a time when war would decide the fates of entire civilizations. Our war was just a gun show in the middle of some tundra that no one really cared about. None of my friends or family ever thought it would come to this.  David was right. We should have fought before, when we still had time to change things.
“David, do you think we actually could have stopped it?”
“Stopped what?”
“Well, out there, you told that woman that we should have fought the draft before the war started. Do you actually think we could have done anything?“
“Oh come on Rena, stop thinking in the past. Maybe we could have, maybe not. I don't know. No one knows. But we can't blame ourselves for it. No one saw it coming.”
“Yea… but, don’t you think somewhere along the line people like us should have realized what a draft would mean and at least talked about it?”
“Sure, we probably should have. But we were always too busy planning our lives and having fun. There was nothing to remind us that one day a draft might come along and change it.”
I nodded, still feeling some regret. I dug back into the brochure and read about how I could keep in touch with David while he was gone. They suggested small care packages, emails, and internet calling. I read this carefully, because I knew it would be the only way for me to know how he was.
“Finally done with this paperwork,” David said, relieved.
“Yea, and you’re almost next!”
“That worked out nicely.”
“Hey, this says you can video chat if you bring a video camera for your laptop.“
“Next,” a clerk called for the man in front of David.
“Okay.”
“Yea. And I can send you-“
“Next,” a different clerked called for David.
“Gotta go,” David said. He walked swiftly to the desk.
I mumbled, “care packages…” and took a seat on the side wall, where the other friends and family were waiting.
I could feel a headache coming on, so I closed the brochure and laid my head back against the wall. My body, my mind. They were slipping away from me, with my feet still anchored to the ground. And it hurt all over.
