


Chapter 4

September 24th, 2017


The hills of California’s Interstate 80 cradled us in our 4-door as we zipped by. Even at the speed limit the trees flew past too quickly. I found myself counting seconds and looking at the clock as much as I looked in the  mirror.
David was abnormally quiet. I had to fend off the silence, else it would kill us both.
“Isn’t this the way we go to your parents’ house?” I asked.
 “Wow…Yea…it is. How’d you know?”
“The sign for 80 says Sacramento on it.”
	“Oh…”
	David’s voice was never this soft. It made me worry. But he kept talking which was at least a little relief.
“Man, I should’ve gone back to visit again.”
	“I thought you couldn’t stand your parents.”
“Yea, but they’re still my parents. And I miss Sacramento. I wonder if my friends were drafted too…”
	“You should call them and ask.”
	“Eh. It’s a little late now. We can see the base from here.”
	It hit me dead in the chest. I was missing him so much already, and we still had a few miles to go.
	We paused, but I spoke again to hold the tears back.
	“What are you thinking about?”
	“Nothing really. Just zoning out.”
	“Really? How about the temperature, is it okay?”
	“Yea, it’s fine.”
	“You want some music? I can turn on the-.”
	“Rena, it’s fine. I just don’t really want to talk right now.”
	“Okay, then.”
	I searched for comfort in the bushes on the side of the road. They were like a barrier separating us from the base, keeping it only in our imaginations and out of reality. Until they left. Then the base became a cold reality. The earth was covered in brown dirt and tan grass. It was all so disgustingly bland. The airbase looked like a strange town plopped in the middle of all this. And then the realization came to me. I was staring at the place we would say goodbye. Maybe our last. That was where my heart would end.
 	“We’re almost there,” David chimed, checking that his bag was still in the back seat.
	I felt my adrenaline rush a little, telling me to fight, to take back the friend they were stealing from me. The urge didn’t go away. I imagined myself screaming out loud, “You can’t go!” I’d screech the tires hot against the pavement, and take him away to Mexico. There would be no trace of regret in my soul. The ideas kept through my head, but I couldn’t let them out. This is the one thing I couldn’t fight and it killed me inside to know.
“Rena, you’re shaking. You okay?”
	In a broken tone, I answered, “Yea I’m fine.”	He was silent in disbelief.
	“David, you know what’s wrong.”
	“Yea…But I promised you I’d be back.”
	“I know. It’s not that. It’s just…I don’t want you to leave. You belong here, not out risking your life for some pointless war.”
“I’ll be saving lives.”
“You can save lives here.”
	“I’m just an intern here. My work will be so much more important there.”
	“But why do you have to risk your life to save lives?”
	“Because. That’s what army doctors do.”
	“But David, that’s the point. Why do you have to be an army doctor?”
	“I just…I don’t have a choice.”
	“Really? You could have gone and argued for a deferment or postponement. And you didn’t even try.”
	“There’s no way I could have gotten one.”
	“How do you know?”
	“I have absolutely no evidence that says I have opposed war, and that I oppose it now. I’m not religious, so I can’t use that. I would have just wasted my time and theirs.”
“You didn’t even try to look for evidence.”
	“Well, I know I don’t have any.”
	I let my anger cool down for a minute while we parked and got out of the car. I couldn’t believe we’d gotten into a fight right before he was leaving. But I couldn’t waste time thinking about it now, so I dropped it.
	I rejoined him in front of the car, and we walked wherever the signs took us. My eyes stared down at his brown dufflebag, filled to the brim, with sharp juts in the sides. He insisted on packing without me seeing, and I went with it. David always had reasons for doing the simplest of things differently, but he never told anyone why. He just said, “Because I need to”. 
 “Is one bag really going to keep you?”  I asked for the third time since we had left.
	“One bag is all they allow. And besides, they’ll give me whatever else I might need,” He responded. His voice showed he was on edge.
	“Did you forget anything? We can go back and get it…”
	“It’s fine. I’ll be fine. Quit worrying.”
	Don’t worry…that was impossible at this point.
A quick pause, then I asked, “What did you pack? You never told me.”	
“I packed everything I’ll need. I have my music, a camera, a few comfortable clothes. Really, I’ll be fine between this bag and the Army. Stop worrying.”
“Anything to remember home by?”
	He paused for a moment.
	“…Yea I’ve got some of those things too.”
	I could tell he didn’t, but I didn’t want to say anything. The anger was rising again, and I didn’t want it to ruin anything. There was a long pause and he could tell I was mad, but he wouldn‘t say anything either.
The pause let me think for a minute about the past few days. He seemed so preoccupied with something after the processing station, and so into the brochure every night.
	“What were you looking at in the brochure?”
	“What?”
	“In the brochure the guy handed out at the processing place. You were reading it a lot the past few days. What have you been reading?”
	“Just…what it’s like being in the army.”
	“But there wasn’t much about that in there.”
	“Well I also read the stuff about what to pack.”
	“That was like one page.”
	“Yea.”
	“Did you pack a video camera by the way?”
	“Ohh… you know what? I forgot to pick one up.”
	“David! I thought I told you to get one. Or at least I thought you would want to. You had plenty of time but you spent it all reading about the army. It’s almost like you want-”
	I stopped cold and looked straight into his eyes. He wasn’t in pain over this at all. And suddenly I realized what he hadn’t been telling me for the past two weeks.
	“You want to go.”
	“Well…I don’t really.”
“You’re excited about this. You want to be some big hero.”
	“I’m not exactly excited about it-“
	“This is just some big dream of yours. I’m dying inside, and you’ve been spending your last days here just fantasizing about the army?”
	“Rena, I’m sorry…”
	“No…no you’re not. You’d be regretful if you were.”
	“Rena, I am.”
	“David, I can tell you don’t care one bit! I can see it in your eyes, in the way you’ve been acting recently. You’re so selfish!”
He was surprised, and didn’t say anything for a moment.
“Well, what do you mean?”
“You haven’t even thought about how Michelle and I are going to feel. You wouldn’t even fight the draft for us.”
“I know you both won’t be too happy…but it's my decision. You’ll forget about me soon and move on, find a boyfriend or something.”
“No. We won’t move on. We don’t move on like that.”
“You’ve got to.”
“That’s not how it works, David. Even if it was, we wouldn’t want to just throw away a friendship like that. You mean a lot to the both of us. Sometimes I wonder how much we mean to you…”
I looked up at his eyes, the ones I was used to seeing so happy all the time, the ones that used to make me forget my sadness. But I saw nothing this time. His face was stone.
“You’re…going to forget about me.”
The first tear broke away and crawled down my cheeks, already warm. It fell and splashed silently against the concrete walkway. I couldn’t hold in my sadness any longer, and I slapped him. 
He was shocked, but not angry. He never was. Tears began to bleed down my cheeks, the tears I’d been holding in all week. They rushed out to meet the warm sun on my cheek and show him the pain until the dry wind wrestled them away.
“I can't believe you're doing this right now. You're just going to let go of everything you call home?”
“Come on, Rena…I have pictures of the both of you. Of everyone from my life. I’m not gonna forget you. You know that.”
“I'm not so sure anymore.”
	He walked toward me to hold me, but I backed away. He sighed, frustrated, and turned around to look at the base. 
	He spoke into the wind. So maybe it could carry his message home. “I’m coming back, Rena. And when I do, I’m coming back to you, and Michelle. To here. To home, and no place else.”
	I couldn’t stop crying.
	“There’s no other place I know that’s better than here, in San Francisco, with my new family. So you can doubt me, sure. But I’m coming back. And when I do, you’ll wonder why you wasted so much time fearing the worst.”
	I moved in, hesitantly, and grasped his back. I could feel his warmth all through my skin, and I held on tighter as if to keep his warmth and smell from ever leaving. I nodded softly against his spine, my sobs turning to sniffles and deep breaths. I wanted to believe him, but I couldn’t. I knew he still had the desire to leave us. To move onto something different, and that it would change him so much in a very short time. But I held on tight and didn’t let go of what he told me. I still had hope that maybe he would remember home and think of me. That maybe he would look at the photos we took and that maybe he was just nervous right now.
	“I’m sorry for leaving you like this. For being so preoccupied these last couple weeks.”
	He turned around, and took my ears in his hands, gently tilting my head up.
	“I’m gonna miss you. You know that. Even if I’m busy, I’ll be thinking about you everyday.”
	I nodded, “The same goes for you.”
	“I know you will. I know you will.”
	We held on tight one last time. It was the most bittersweet moment of my life.
	“Hey I gotta go now okay?”
	“Okay.”
	He picked up his bag and swung It over his shoulders.
	“I’ll send you plenty of emails.”
	“Okay,” I nodded, and let a whole 'nother round of tears come out.
	“Hey. Come on, Rena. You gotta keep moving along with your life. You have a lot to live for. Much more than me.”
	He swept away the remaining tears from my face, and gazed into my eyes. And then ruffled my hair like he usually does.
	“Hey! She can smile! The girl can smile!”
	I laughed and looked at his feet.
	“Well, I'll be on my way,” he said.
	The smile went away, but I held in my tears long enough to remind him what he promised me.
	“I’ll see you later.”
	We waved and slowly backed away from each other.
	When he was further away, I remembered something, and I yelled, “Hey Dave!”
	“What’s up?”
	“Look in your pocket!”
He looked confused, but checked anyway. He found a small bag of cookies I had baked and a note saying, 
“Happy 26th Birthday!”
	



















