


Chapter 6

September 27nd, 2017


I decided to visit Michelle today. David and I usually visited about twice a month, and it was about that time. On the way, I kept thinking of how I’d break the news to her, but there was really no good way to do it. Sometimes David had a way of making me mad even when he wasn’t around. 
I passed through the metal detector clean and asked to see Michelle.
 	"Where's your boyfriend?” he said, with a chuckle. Apparently he thought it was funny. My silence snuffed out the smile on his face.
 	The door stared blankly at the opposite while, while I waited anxiously at our usual table. I always wondered how she'd be different each time, because she did change every time. Sometimes in subtle ways, other times they were more pronounced. But when I saw these 2-week snapshots of who she was becoming, I got a wider angle on the transformation. I wanted to stare into her eyes, to know she was still the same Michelle, to know that I was still the same Rena to her.
 	"Hey, Rena." She startled me and laughed, "Did I surprise you? Always gotta be aware!" 
"Hey, Michelle," I said with a smile. Her energy was the one thing that never changed.
"So um. Where's David?" She asked.
"He's uh..." I struggled to squeeze the words out of my mouth.
"Come on. Out with it."
Where were the words that I'd concocted before I got here? I searched all the corners of my mind, and gave up.
“He's not here.”
“Well yea I can see that.” She stooped to look at my downward stare. “Does this have to do with that thing you guys were keeping from me last time?”
“Yea.”
“Well then what is it?”
I remained silent, petrified. Searching wouldn't help me.
"He didn't get drafted did he?" -The biggest goosebumps- "Did he?"
I nodded.
She stood up fast and let out, "Sh-". But the "-it" was muffled by her kicking the chair. 
A guard yelled at her, "Hey, keep it down!"
 She paced once in silent disappointment and sat back down.
"How the hell did this happen?!"
“It just came in the mail.”
"Just came in the mail?" She asked with an air of disappointment.
“Yea the letter. They sent it to him, and then he had to go.
"Did you at least fight? Did you go to court or try to stop it?"
“No” - “Why not?”
“Well we can't just fight it.”
“Did you even read the laws about it? There has to be some sort of exemption”
“I tried to tell him to do it, but he wouldn't listen. He wanted to go.”
“Hah. David? In a war? Yea right. He's a doctor. He's never even fired a gun.”
“They have him as a field medic.”
“Oh that's jolly. Put the lives of 20 people in his hands. He'll definitely be looking out for himself then.”
I stayed silent again. That was my usual state when she was angry.
She sighed, “What are we supposed to do now, huh? Wait for him to die? I'm not accepting that."
"but what can we do?"
"Something. Anything. It would've been easier to change two weeks ago. I mean, for Christ's sake, you did nothing, Rena? Didn’t I tell you to take care of David while I was gone? I can't do that when I'm in here."
"How was I supposed keep him safe? He made up his own mind."
"You could have contested it, you could have persuaded David out of it. Did you even try to think of something?"
She paused for a second, floating on my guilt.
“You know David was never a fighter. Neither were you.”
"I tried persuading him!”
	“Oh really? How many times?”
“…Once…”
"Come on. You know as well as I do that persuading David always takes more than one time."
"He wouldn't have listened anyway. If you were in my position, you would understand. There is nothing I could have done!"
"Rena. It's your battle and you're the captain. If you want to surrender to the bully, then that’s your call.”
"I didn't surrender. I just..."
	My tears broke up my words until they were unintelligible.
"You know, I would be sympathetic right now, but I can't believe you didn't at least try something."
"There was nothing I could do."
"Just because it's comfortable to think so, doesn't mean it's true.”
"Why are you being so mean?”
"Because you had a chance, Rena. You had a chance to save someone that we both love. And you didn't take it."
	"He's coming back. He's just a medic."
	"Rena, you can't be an idealist all your life. You don't know whether he is or not. Anything can happen in war. Even to a medic."
	I kept crying, while she stared at me, and she slowly felt her anger die down and turn into guilt. She chimed in, softer and low to the tabletop.
	"Look, I'm sorry for being so harsh. I'll have served my time in a couple months. Maybe we can figure something out."
	"But it's too late-"
	"Shh…Rena, it's never too late."
She stood up and searched my empty gaze for a bit of forgiveness. Finding none, she turned and headed back through the door with her guard-escort. I stayed in the chair  and felt the reality of the past month coalesce into a massive tumor of guilt and metastasize.
