


Chapter 9

September 29th, 2017


This was the day I stopped blaming myself. It also happened to be the best day I’d had since Saturday. Coincidence? Maybe.
The office today was awkward. Conner had called a meeting to speak with the protestors. He couldn’t do anything to punish them. He just said “tsk tsk” and told them to never do it again. We were the engineers and scientists. He couldn’t just fire us.
Sarah sent me an email with the data I needed. She didn’t want to talk with me about it, or even put anything in the email besides the attachment. She was making this so awkward for her and for me and it frustrated me enough to confront her.
When I opened the door to the wind tunnel lab, she looked up and then quickly looked back down. She grabbed a pen and a clipboard and moved to a corner of the room where she couldn’t see me. I followed her.
“Sarah, we should talk.”
No answer.
“Sarah, this is so stupid. Can we just talk?”
She moved again, pushing my shoulder out of her way. On a normal day, I would have told her to lose the attitude. But today, my bitch meter was in the red. I grabbed her arm tight and pulled her close.
“Let go of me!” She said.
I pulled her closer.
“You listen to me…”
I stumbled on words to say.
“David…David makes his own decisions. He is not there because I failed to do anything , and you will not make me feel worthless because of things that are beyond my control.”
She wrestled free from my hand and brushed her arm. 
“Fine…Suit yourself,” she said with a smirk.
This wasn’t the reaction I was expecting.
I started, “I’m glad we can-” 
But she had already turned around and walked away. I was confused. Why would she agree so quickly? She was all against me yesterday. Being naïve as I was, I shrugged it off and headed back to my desk. But as I approached it, I could hear her voice coming from Conner’s office. She was telling on me, as immature as that sounds. I started working at my desk, knowing that listening in would slowly eat away at my hopes of staying there. And for a few minutes I was calm, working in my own world of four sea-green walls, and a pencil and paper. I guess it was my way of making amends with the cubicle I had hated for so long. Realizing its better traits, and that it was not to blame for making me hate my job.
“Rena,” Conner said in a quiet voice.
My adrenaline immediately spiked.
“Y-Yes?”
“Can we have a talk in my office?”
“Yea, sure.”
I followed him inside and took a seat. When he closed the door, my fear began. He talked in a voice like a school principal.
“Rena, do you know why I called you in?”
“I have a hunch…”
“And what does that hunch tell you?”
“It tells me that Sarah told you that I was…being a little mean to her.”
I can’t believe I sugar-coated that. I always try to shine the most truth on the things I say.
“Well, that’s mostly right. I’m more concerned about her claim that you grabbed her and caused a bruise in doing so.”
“What? Well…yea I grabbed her but I didn’t think I grabbed her that hard.”
“You know grabbing is off limits, however hard it may be. And the fact that you caused a bruise technically makes it an assault.”
“I didn’t mean to hurt her!”
“That’s beside the point, Rena. The point is, you harassed and assaulted a fellow employee. Now, the company has very strict guidelines when it comes to harassment and assault. Especially in a lab.”
I could hear it now. Those six words that  soften the blow like a pillow for a bus on a highway.
“I have to let you go,” he said.
I gazed for a moment, eyes wide, thinking to myself what to do. Nothing came to me except anger.
I said, “Oh…this is hilarious. You’re firing the worker who makes one mistake, and keeping the intern who organized a protest that caused an entire day of lost productivity.”
“What can I say, Rena. Rules are rules. No matter how fair or unfair they are, we have to stick to them.”
“…I understand.”
“And I have to say, I never expected you to assault someone here.”
“It wasn’t assault!”
“Well, either way. You’ve always been a good, quiet worker. What happened today?”
And then I saw my way out.
“Well, it started when I talked to her yesterday at the protest. She told me I didn’t care about David, my friend who was drafted recently. And it made me pretty angry. So today, I wanted to talk to her and she walked away from me. When I followed her to ask again, she ran into my shoulder, hard, and I guess it set me off.”
“So she ran into your shoulder?”
“Yes.”
“Was this an accident?”
“I’m pretty sure it wasn’t”
“Well, you know, shoulder bumping happens quite often. We have some rather narrow passages in the labs.”
I couldn’t believe he just shot down my only hopes of staying. Why did I want to stay anyway? I hated this place.
“Look, Conner. I respect you and your work, but I really really want to leave as soon as I can.”
“Oh. Why’s that?
“I hate working here.”
“Why have you never said anything about this?”
“Ha. Well am I supposed to just come up to you and say, ‘I hate working here everyday’?”
“Well, no but if there was something we could have improved, I would have liked for you to tell me.”
“There’s nothing that would improve this job. It just isn’t for me, that’s all.”
“Okay. Well you seem pretty happy to leave, so I’ll let you go. ”
“Alright. Oh, and Conner.”
“Please…if you know what’s right for you. Don’t hire Sarah.”
He laughed.
“Well, Rena, I don’t think you have the authority to tell me who to hire and who not to hire.”
“Just take it as advice, then.”
I walked quickly to my desk and gathered my things. I made sure to keep the framed photo of David, Michelle, and I in a safe place. I just had some other trinkets that I threw in my bag, and I was ready to go. I silently said goodbye to the cubicle in a near-guilty remorse.
I slowly walked to Sarah’s desk, making sure I would keep my composure and temper in check. When I arrived, I peeped my head in the corner and knocked on the cubicle frame.
“Oh, Rena…what’s up?”
Her, like nothing had happened.
“I just wanted to say goodbye one last time. And thank you.”
“…for what?”
“For getting me out of this place, this…prison.”
I smiled and walked out the door, knowing that we both had gotten what we wanted.










