*This should be part of the previous part. Not ch 12*


Chapter 12

October 31st, 2017


“Michelle, Do you ever get the feeling something bad is going to happen, and you can't explain why?”
“No. I never get that feeling. What's wrong with you?”
“You're so meeeeean. Anyway-”
“Wait a minute...do you remember us having this conversation before?”
“Uh...should I?”
“Well you don't remember anything anyway, Rena.”
“Your brownie points aren't getting any browner.”
“Eh, never liked brownies. I'm more of a cookie person.”
I laughed.
“Anyway, you totally said that before. It was about a year ago, about when the war started.”
“Oh. Wait. I think I do remember now.”
“Yeaa. And you got this same feeling. And then nothing really happened.”
“Well, the war started.”
“Yea, but you said it was about something else.”
“I did? Hmm...well David left.”
“But that's so far into the future. You really think that could be it?”
“Ohhh. I know what happened. You started drinking a lot and then...the car.”
“Oh...yea...now I remember.”
“See I have a sixth sense with these things.”
	She looked quietly angry all of a sudden.
“Oh...I-I'm sorry, Michelle. I didn't mean to-”
“No, it's fine. I'm the one who brought it up. But maybe you do have a sense about this. What does it feel like this time?”
“Mmm...I don't know. Just the same ominous feeling. I hate not being able to plan ahead for it. I swear I've been feeling so powerless lately.”
“Powerless? Rena, keep in mind who you're talking to.”
“Oh...yea.”
We paused. She shook off the awkward and said, “This is turning into a sad conversation.”
“Yea. Oh so I still remember about your plan.”
“Ooh really? Caus I've been working on it a lot.”
“I can't wait to hear it! Oh, and I've been working on one myself.”
“Uh oh, Rena's planning things!”
I let out my cutest “Mwahaha!” and it sounded like a  bunny planning world domination, which, I should mention, is rather accurate to my mindset.
Michelle laughed and shook her head. 
“I don't think you have the ability to be scary. Like some people are just bad at it, but I don't even think you can.”
I smiled cute. 
“I can if I need to.”
“Well okay, princess pain. I'll believe it when I see it.”
“Oh you will. Especially if our plans have any ass-kicking in them. I'll be all over that.” 
Michelle laughed into her hand.
“You're something else, kid.”
“Oh you wanna go? I see how it is.”
“Pu-leeease. You're like a little bunny rabbit. The only thing you'd tackle is David.”
“Heyyyyy!!!”
“You know it's true.”
“Well......yea....”
“Anyway, when are you gonna tell me about your secret plan?”
“Right. So...this plan...involves you and me...and a trip.”
“Wait...what?”
“Before you get too excited, I just want to say, I don't have all the kinks worked out.”
“Rena, what the..you're not making any sense.”
“It's easy. We just go over there and steal him away.”
“What?!”
“Yea. Well I mean, we have to plan how we're getting there, but between the two of us, I think we'll get around just fine.”
She bent down close to the table, with her secretive voice.
“Rena...what the fuck? Are you being serious?”
“Yea...I thought...you'd be really excited about this.”
“You know where that kind of recklessness landed me? Right here. And you know what else? Prison in China won't be so forgiving.”
“You're so pessimistic.”
“No, I'm realistic. What you're talking about is suicide. If we don't get shot, we'll be raped. If we don't get raped, we'll be tortured. And if we don't get tortured we'll be stuck in some camp for prisoners that our army would never find. This plan of yours is ridiculous, and I can't even believe you would risk our lives like that just to put David in more harm than he's in already and the maybe somehow find a way out of that mess. We'd be hunted by both sides, and tried in court if we ever come back. I am not letting you do this.”
“I need to know if he's okay. Even if we just stay with him when we get there. I'm sure they wouldn't mind some people staying as long as we make ourselves useful.”
“You're ridiculous, Rena. We're not going to China.”
“You don't get it. I love him. And when I love, I love with my breath and my bones. I love with my soul and every inch of me. I don't take friendship lightly, and I never take it for granted. When you left, when David left; that was my own soul leaving me. That was everything I cherished, everything I could call home, gone. I had half a mind to break you out of jail, but I knew you weren't in danger of dying.”
“Rena. Don't let love make you blind. Just wait for him. He has a good chance of coming back.”
“Good chance? You've got to be kidding. Honestly, I think I'd stand a better chance than David. He may have people defending him, but those people also make him a target.”
“Well sure, but you'll definitely be a target too. You really think you can just walk right in to a war zone? There's people out there with guns and explosives and night vision goggles who are told to kill anyone within a mile. You really think you can survive?”
“Ahh. That's where an important part of my plan comes in.”
“Oh God, spare me.”
“I've recently been learning some martial arts. I'll know ways to escape from dangerous situations and learn useful information using my wit.
“So you're a ninja, and you're going to get past an army with your new skills.”
“Yes.”
She burst out laughing.
“This has to be a joke! I swear this plan gets more and more crazy. Is Batman coming too?”
I sat there staring glumly while she finished her boystrous, echoey fit. I thought she would have been totally with me on this. She used to do all these fun, reckless things. Used to fight hard for what she knew was the right thing. And it gave David and I the energy to fight for what we believed in as well. She'd changed. Was more reserved now. It  made me a little sad.
Still laughing, “So...you're actually serious? This isn't one of your fleeting ideas again is it?”
“Michelle. I'm absolutely serious about this, and if you're not, then maybe I'll just go by myself.”
“Haha. Wait, wait a minute now. You're one crazy kid, but you're not getting killed while I'm here. I promised David I'd make sure you were safe.”
“What good is safe when every reason for us to live is in danger?”
“You really love him don't you.”
“Yes.”
“Look, my heart is totally with you, but you gotta think, Rena. I really do wish that we could go and pull him out of there, but life isn't that easy. You have so much riding against you here. You're essentially throwing yourself into the frontlines of a world war in a foreign country halfway around the world-”
“My old home isn't too far from there.”
“Yes, well either way, you couldn't easily get home if you were stuck in China. Anyway, I know I can't really sway you right now, so I'm just gonna ask that you think about this a lot first. If you're really going to do this, you better plan out every detail by the time I'm out of here. Then we'll look it over again. But until then, there's no way in hell we're going.”
I said in my most comically stern voice, “Challenge Accepted.”
She shook her head and laughed, “Are you sure you're 25?”
“As 25 as you are!”




Letter to David Yong from Michelle Choi
November 1st, 2017

Hey, David,
I figured I should write you since I'm not sure how much Rena remembers to tell you, and since I need to talk to you about some things without Rena knowing.
By now, I bet she's told you how angry I was at you. How could you? It really hurt me when I realized you were holding in that secret the last time you came to visit. I thought you were better than that. If you were afraid of me getting angry, then... okay well that's a fair thing to be afraid of, but I wasn't going to like scream in your face or pin you to the floor if you didn't go. If we were home, that would be a different story.
But in all seriousness. It really hurt me. You know we don't keep secrets like that for a reason.
So anyway, how've you been? They feeding you alright down there? Any big surgeries yet? You'll have to send us some photos, man. (of what it's like, not of surgeries. Caus I know you'd be one to do that.)
In other news, I think Rena's depression is getting pretty bad. She can still operate, but she has major mood swings and is saying things that are a little strange. I just don't know what to do. I'm behind a bunch of concrete, but I can try to snap her out of it with talk. I figured you'd be more effective at talking to her about it for...well...various reasons. But there's only so much I can do here. I wanted to reach out to you for help. For her sake as well as our own.
Well anyhow, take care. You still owe me that arm wrestling match.

Love,
	Michelle 


