


Chapter 13

November 1st, 2017
Near Dairen, Manchuria

“...Chilly day.”
“...Yep.”
David was n much of a morning person and the gloomy fog wasn't making it any better. But Cassie and David began every morning the same way. Sipping coffee, looking out at the countryside that was their new home. 
“Y'know Cassie, sometimes I wonder why they even need us here.”
“I know what you mean.”
“Like, I know it's an active warzone and all, but we're not even fighting. It's all just slow, recon stuff. The kind of stuff no one gets injured from.”
“Sometimes I wonder what they're even doing out there. They call it recon, but we've been doing it for a month now. What could they possibly need that much scouting for?”
“Don't know. They tend to keep those sorts of things under wraps. All I can tell is that the army's taking their time with this one. I doubt we'll be leaving when they told us we would.”
They both paused to sip. They'd been thinking that for quite some time now.
“Yep.”
They kept staring into the pea-soup fog, waiting for an answer to pop out of it. But nothing was there except solid gray and the little bit of grass that was under their feet.
“So why'd you join, Cassie?”
“I joined with my brother when he got drafted, caus I thought I could protect him as a medic. But then they put us in separate platoons. We appealed to be put in the same one, but they didn't even read the appeal. Hope he's alright.”
“So...do you regret joining then?”
“I mean...I do occasionally. But I know someone just like me will be taking care of him. And a bunch of people are counting on me to take care of their loved ones.”
“That's a good way of seeing it.”
“How about you, Dave. You still wish you could go back?”
“You know, I always thought I'd be unhappy in the army. But after I got drafted I started entertaining the idea, and after a few weeks, I was glad to be here.”
“So you actually enjoy it here?”
“Well, think about it. If we were back home, we'd be working insanely long hours as the bottom-feeders of the hospital foodchain. We would have no life and nothing to show for it. Here, we are the hospital. You and me. But the good thing is that no one here is getting hurt.”
“I wonder what it's like further up. Where the war is actually happening.”
“If there is anything happening. You'd think we would have seen or heard something like war by now. Just sounds like a winter morning in the Sierras.”
“I've never been out there.”
“To the Sierras?”
“No. The West.”
“Really?! Cass, you poor thing.”
“I know...just never had time to venture out there. And my parents weren't really rich enough to take the family on vacations that far so we stayed put.”
“Well, when this is all over, you should find some time to come visit the West. I'll be your inside scoop.”









The city howled at the moon as she sat there feeling lifeless, the harsh brightness of the screen drawing her into a whirlwind of thoughts. The kind of thoughts that were never true, but she still perpetuated as a cruel way to lie to herself. She imagined that she had been forgotten by the ones who still understood her. It's not so hard to do when you're depressed, wondering why your friends aren't trying to find you in the same maze they've become lost and alone in. The thoughts become poisons so thick you can feel them crawling into your brain and staining it all a blurred sort of darkness until you've become blind with it. She welcomed them in, knowing they would hurt her. She wanted them to.




"Hey Mina! It's been so long!"
Michelle always talked to her cello like it was her own 5 year old daughter. She ran her fingers between the strings like strands of hair, and she took a deep breath of her cello's scent as if inhaling the spirit from all its hidden corners. I’d never seen her so refreshed, so glad to be alive and free. And that’s saying a lot.
Michelle was a cellist in the modern sense. I'd gone to all the shows that her string ensemble had throughout the city. I remember seeing their first show and gazing at how gracefully their arms held time within them. The music they created involved the entire instrument in every way possible. bowing, plucking, tapping, rubbing. You'd think playing like that would make the sound too harsh or out-of-place, but it was magnificent. It was as if the instruments were singing out their gratitude to be loved for everything they were. She told me that when she played, she imagined being in a paradise where every ounce of effort was a means to the same, beautiful end. She became one with the grandest orchestra, that played for nothing more than the rapture at beholding itself.
Music spoke to her in ways that poetry could never touch. Whenever she played, I fell silent with envy for the things she experienced that a poet could only wonder about. But then she would always remind me that i had the power to change minds, shift the tides of the human struggle with nothing but a few words, beautifully arranged. It should be fair, but it's not. The only writers who changed anything lived through hell and sometimes they survived. I was no hell-dweller.









"Rena...I get lonely too sometimes...Y'know, back in the cell, I'd think of how you two would start living on without me. I was so scared that our trio would be gone. And then when you told me the news...I couldn't help but wonder...if I'd ever see him again."
God. She was never this soft. Ever.

/*Michelle gets shot at a protest, dies in the hospital with Rena by her side.

	"Rena, you there?"
	Her voice was scratchy and deep. I was surprised, so I quickly walked over to her bed.
	"Michelle, you're awake!"
	"Heh. Not for long."
	"Well, you do need your rest."
	“I don't think you understand, Rena. I won't be...here. For long.”
	“Don't be silly, Michelle,” I tried desperately to keep myself together.
 	I reassured her, “You're gonna do just fine.”
	"What, you think I’m gonna recover from this? I stayed alive so I could say goodbye."
	"No no no! Don't do this!-"
	"Do what, Rena?" She looked at me with such a beautiful smile, and I couldn't stop the tears.
	"We all do it. We just have different timing."
	"This isn't your time!"
	“Sure as hell feels like a nice time to go. Slain in a battle to save my friend from an undserving death. I've never felt like such a hero.”
	“No...no no, this is a terrible time to go. We still have so much to do, so many plans to make. We're...we're a neverending trio, remember?”
	"Rena. We will always be a trio. I'll keep fighting on..." She moved her hand to my chest.
	"...right here."
	I covered her hand with mine and felt it slowly get cold. Before I left, I whispered her name under my breath and slowly laid her hand to rest.
	Michelle Han ended her story on February 5th, 2011 with a smile on her face and love in her hand.





	I went to the bridge the next morning, dressed in my favorite spring dress. White and flowing, embroidered flowers in blue and purple with bees leaving swirly trails of dots. I figured I'd dress up for St. Peter. Maybe he'd spare me for being pretty.
Half the people I walked by knew what was in my head. It happpens so often anymore, bridge jumpers. seeing a person walking alone on the bridge is almost a guarantee that something is up. But I didn't care. I wouldn't have to see them ever again, so what is there to judge?
 I got to it. The 69th pole. The most popular departure gate. I looked out at the city again. For signs or reasons not to do this. But there were none. I probably wouldn't even have stopped if there were.
The distance from the rail to the edge is much smaller than you would expect. It made me feel claustrophobic, uneasy. I started to doubt myself a little.
//extend this dialogue for a longer draw out time.
"Rena, what are you doing? Michelle would be ashamed. And David would be furious"
"They're dead. They're gone and dead and not coming back."
"You're wrong They're not dead. Michelle's soul is still living inside of you."
"Oh, and like I believe in that crap. She may be strong, but I'm not. She made a mistake of living on through a weakling."
	"And what about David? What would he say?"
"He's halfway across the world, probably dead somewhere in a field with hundreds of other soldiers."
"And what if he's not? What if he comes back and sees what you've done?"
"I don't fucking care. I'll be gone anyway. He can go find some other girl that actually tells him what she feels."
"But you know he won't. He'll curse the war and wish he'd never gone away. He'll go on forever wondering what you'd be doing if he hadn't left."
"No...no no. What are you doing? You came here for a reason. Now jump!"
	I pushed to jump, but an arm grabbed me just in time. I gasped for air and tried to wrestle free from it, but it wouldn't let go. Suddenly, I heard shoes scrape on the concrete, and I felt the arm being pulled with me.
	“Shit! Stop fighting, you're gonna pull me off,” The hand's owner yelled.
I immediately stopped and looked back at him. He barely had one foot on the ground.
“Just let go!” I cried.
He held on to my wrist tighter than I'd ever felt.  The strength of his one arm outweighed any strength my half-fight for death could give, and I started to rise.
	But his other shoe gave out. The sound of his last bit of shoe slipping out was burned into my mind and carved deep into the granite wall that is my fears. The doctors told me that he had slipped and that it had overturned him over the railing. Our weights combined threw us both over the side and through the air. 
	To his death. But not mine.






“It's a silly thing. in this city. So full of romance. The most of it I can find comes as tithes for sex. The dinner is always rushed and full of petty small talk just to fill the voids that made what we're doing awkward. It's like we have to tell the world, 'This is a date. We're on a date. We swear'. I can't even tell who's the fool.”
	
	







