


Chapter 2

September 9th, 2017


The prison looked just as drab beneath a gray sky as it did in the August sun. Stratus clouds were making a thick soup in the sky, with the concrete land around us, a fitting bowl. At the gate, there was a guard who took a look at our IDs, typed something in his computer and let us drive on. We passed through the barbed wire fence and were immediately in their land.
“I always get the creeps after that gate.” David looked uncomfortable. He continued, “If it were anyone else, I wouldn’t be here.”
“Yea, it’s creepy. Just imagine living here though.”
	“I can’t imagine what it’s like for Michelle. She can probably beat me in arm wrestling now.”
	“Hah. She was beating you before she left.”
	“We were pretty evenly matched last time we played. I’ve missed it.”
	He parked far from the entrance and we hopped out into the stagnant, humid air. It was a one of those warm cloudy skies that warn you just before a rainstorm. We entered, emptied our pockets, and went through the metal detector. The front clerk was filling some paperwork out, making sure he kept his head down until we got closer, and then he looked up at us, his eyelids barely open enough to see past.
“Here to see Michelle?” He asked lazily.
 I guess every two weeks is often enough to be considered regulars. Prison visiting rooms aren't exactly the place to be.
	We confirmed, and signed our names in the visitors log while he got out of his seat to escort us through the long hallway to the visiting room. That hallway always seemed to run for miles. Maybe it was the nauseating wave of flourescent lights at 10 foot increments, or the claustrophobic feeling it gave me; or maybe it was the echoes of our footsteps that seemed louder than where they came from. Either way, I hated it.
	We stepped into the room. The walls were a frustrating shade of white on cinder blocks. The only trace of anything inviting was the few bits of random color that forced their way into the plasticine beige of the floor tiles. The clerk told us to go ahead and sit down at a table while he got Michelle.
David muttered to me, “Remember, don’t tell her anything about what happened.”
“I still don’t understand why you're keeping it a secret. It’s going to be tough when I finally tell her.”
“Just do it for me okay? I don’t want her to worry.”
“Okay.”
A door opened and Michelle came out with a guard holding her arm. Her wrists had cuffs around them like metallic mouths swallowing her hands whole. And they dressed her in a hot-iron-orange jumpsuit that she somehow managed to look stunning in. It scoffed at the idea that she was a person, but she was laughing back. It made me jealous.
“Hey guys!” 
She hurried over to us as the guard let her arm go. She always sounded so happy to see us. 
“Hey!” we responded, now filled with her joy.
“Back for your monthly visit?”
“We come more often than that!” David said.
“Okay maybe every other week, but that’s a month in prison time.”
He let out an anxious snicker.
“Well, I'm sorry. Maybe next-”
He paused his lie and his gaze drifted to the table. Michelle turned to me, confused, so I broke in.
“Hey, I’ll let you two talk for a bit. I’ll just be right  by the wall there.”
I walked away and silently wished David would just tell her. I pulled out my phone and fiddled with it while I listened intently to the few words I could hear, occasionally looking over to watch their reactions.
He looked up and said, “I’m sorry Michelle. We should’ve visited more often.”
“Oh come on, don’t get down on yourself. I was just kidding.”
“No, but you’re right. Good friends would visit more oten”
“David, just chill. I was only joking. I’ve got plenty of things to keep me busy here. I’ve been reading up on sciency stuff so I can actually understand you two when you start rambling about your jobs. Oh, And look!”
She pulled up her sleeve and showed him her bicep.
“Jeez! Those are big enough to lift a car!”
“Maybe we can arm wrestle when I get out, eh?”
“Heh, uhh…I think I’ll pass. I don’t want to break something.”
“Hah. Well, maybe these bad boys will regress when I get busy again.”
“Until then I’ll try not to get on your angry side.”
“Yea, you better not!”
He laughed and then went back to looking at the corner. She leaned in and murmured something to him in a softer voice. I crossed my fingers. He glanced back at me for a moment and I realized I’d been staring at them for the whole time, so I went back to my cell phone. I kept trying to listen, but they were talking too softly. David looked preoccupied with the thought of telling her, but he never seemed to mention it. I lost hope when David stood up and walked toward me. He looked into my eyes, and I saw his face, a model for forced happiness. The secret was killing him inside, but he didn't have the guts to tell her. I faced him and made a disappointed face before I passed him. The same face that my mother gave me whenever I did something that I should have grown out of. I walked over to Michelle and sat down. She leaned in and talked softly.
“So…What’s up with David?”
“It’s nothing.”
“No…there’s definitely something up with him.”
“He’s just got some things he’s got to work out.”
“What kinds of things?”
“Michelle…he doesn’t want you to know yet, so I can’t tell you.”
“Rena, you and David tell me everything. What could possibly be so bad that you can’t tell me this time?”
“I…I’ll tell you another time.”
“What like in another month?”
“No…I’ll tell you as soon as I can…When the time is right. I promise. Just not now.”
“You’d better be true to your word, Rena. You and him both. I’m gonna remember, so you better be ready to tell me next time.”
“I know. We’ll be ready. For sure.”
We paused for a moment, thinking of some other topic. She glanced over at him, bobbing his head to Dylan or some other musician with a voice that's tough to carry. And of course, she used the opportunity to bring up something awkward.
“So are you two dating yet?”
“What?!”
“I gotta admit I’m a little disappointed. I was totally convinced you two would get together while I was gone.”
“Chelle!”
“What? You two look good together.”
“We’re not like…It’s not like that at all. I don't even like him like that.”
“Coulda fooled me. I mean, you are living with the guy. Don’t tell me you never want to just pounce on him and show him what you've got.”
“Heyy!!! shh.”
“I’m just saying. I feel like I know you two better than myself sometimes. You’d make a great couple.”
“Are you done?”
“Nope. Just in case you were wondering, I totally support your decision to date him.”
“Agh! Are you done now?”
“Yep. Now I’m done”
“Look, even if I wanted to, I-”
I caught myself and paused for a moment.
“You what?”
“Nothing…”
“Rena, you can’t do that! That’s like the law of laws. You can’t just leave me up in the air like that.”
“I can’t tell you.”
“Did he find a girlfriend or something? He better not be leaving us.”
“It’s that thing again. I’ll tell you as soon as I can but…I just can’t tell you right now, okay?”
“God, this is so frustrating! What is this goddamn secret? We never keep anything from each other!”
“I know…it’s just this time…David doesn't want to talk about it right now”
“And do you agree with him?”
“Well, no. But it’s his secret. I can’t do that to him.”
She sighed, “Alright…sorry for asking.”
“No it’s fine. I’d be just as curious. I’m so sorry for this. I hate it as much as you do.”
“Well, I guess as long as you tell me soon, I’ll be okay with it.”
“Thank you, Michelle.”
“Just promise me one thing.”
“What is it?”
“That David isn’t going to die because of this secret.”
My heartbeat accelerated for a second, but then I remembered what he promised me. “He won’t die.”
“Alright…then I can live with the secret for a couple weeks.”
“Just a couple?”
“No more, no less.”
“I’ll be sure to come back in two weeks then.
“You better. Who knows what’ll happen if you pass my expiration date.”
“I will. I promise.”
“Okay…well, go get David, and I’ll let you two get on your busy way.”
“Oh, come on, we’re not too busy for you.”
“Nah I’m just givin’ you a hard time.”
I waved David over, and he came and shared the seat with me.
“Well, I guess you guys are gonna leave me here again. When are you gonna break me outta here?”
 David said, “We’ve been thinking about it, but I think we’d have some problems with the whole breaking-through-concrete-without-people-hearing thing”
“Wusses. I guess I’ll just have to dig my way out.”
“Just call us when you’re out and we’ll pick you up,” David said.
“Hah! I’d be the last person you’d want to pick up. I’ll just stay here for another couple months and come back to murder you guys in your sleep. How’s that sound?”
“Great!” I chimed with excitement.
“Okay…now you kids go off on your merry way. Don’t do anything to wind yourselves up here.”
“We won’t,” I said.
We saw a guard take her away as we walked toward the long hallway toward the entrance. I grasped his hand, but it was so cold and clammy that I pulled away in surprise for a moment. He wasn’t looking anywhere but forward.
When we finally got to the parking lot, he stopped suddenly, eyes already wet. I grabbed a tissue and reached out for him. He took the offer.
“I’m sorry, Rena. For making you keep this secret.”
“You know she’s gonna find out soon.”
“I know…I just don’t want to think of a furious fit of rage whenever I think of Michelle. It’s selfish, I know.”
“No, you’re fine. Now she won’t remember a sobbing ball of futility when she thinks of you.”
