


Chapter 10

October 1st, 2017
Email to Rena Onuma from David Yong


Hey Rena! How was your first day back at the office?
I’m really sorry about making you tell Michelle. I’m starting to regret that decision a lot. 
And what’s this about crying and protesting because of me? I told you not to think about me! Get a boyfriend or something.
I’ve got one more week of training before I ship out to Manchuria. They’ve been teaching and testing me hard and sometimes I wonder how much more I’m learning here than I would at a residence. I hate to say that I like it here, but I really do find all of this stuff interesting. I’m kind of apprehensive about this move to Manchuria, though. I won’t be around doctors or nurses anymore. It’ll be all soldiers, a few technicians, and maybe one nurse. I’ll probably have some people to fix up too.
So how has work been? Did anyone ask why you were gone?

-David



October 1st, 2017
Email to David Yong from Rena Onuma


David! You have no clue how much I need to talk with you. I’ve been through a lot in the last few days. I still just wish you were here. It would make me feel a lot better.
Well where should I start? I was fired from my job two days ago. An intern and I had a small argument, and I got carried away and grabbed her arm. So, my boss called it assault, and now I am unemployed. I’m not going to say I was unhappy though. I hated working there.
Don’t worry about Michelle. She was sorry for being so angry. I also realized that I shouldn’t be blaming myself for all of this. We didn’t make this war or this draft. And I didn’t make your decision, you did. I just have to learn to live with it. It won’t be easy. Not by a long shot.
Maybe I’ll get a boyfriend…the evenings here are getting sort of lonely without you and Michelle. But I think I can hold off until Michelle comes back. Maybe I’ll find a hobby. Or get back into Aikido.
Well, keep me posted on where you are! What day are you leaving for Manchuria? I’ll be sure to send you something before then.

Thinking about you even though you tell me not to,
-Rena




October 2nd, 2017
Email to Rena Onuma from David Yong


You…lost your job? How hard did you squeeze her arm? You never seemed like the aggressive type. Maybe you really have changed that much in just a week.
I guess you’re lucky the job market is great right now. Had it been two years ago, you might be losing the apartment. You are…thinking about finding a job…aren’t you?
I’m glad you’re not blaming yourself anymore. I should have made it clearer to you that you have no reason to feel blame. None of these decisions were yours. They were completely mine, and you shouldn’t be wasting time thinking that you didn’t do enough.
You should totally get into Aikido. You could fight Michelle so I don’t have to be the one to fight her all the time! Though, I’d practice if I were you. She’s got some upper body strength.
I’ll be leaving for Manchuria bright and early on the 22nd. It's all going so quick! 
You really don’t have to send me anything. The cookies were good enough!

Flattered by you thinking about me but really don’t want you to miss me all the time,
-David




October 2nd, 2017
Email to David Yong from Rena Onuma


It wasn’t very hard, and I’m not the aggressive type. I just…got a little carried away. I didn’t become some violent person or anything, I just couldn’t handle anymore of the blame.
Could you stop talking about jobs and the job market? It’s really annoying. I’m going to find a way to keep the apartment, so don’t worry. I have a lot of money saved up just in case. It’s going to be alright here, you know. You’ve got enough to worry about where you are. I’ll handle the financial battles.
I’m looking online right now for some Aikido instructors, and there were a few. Maybe I’ll give them a call tomorrow.

David, it’s okay. I’m going to miss you no matter how much you’d rather me not.
-Rena

