


Chapter 11

October 30th, 2017


Sensei bowed, and we bowed back. There was always an air of respect that hung in the silence of the Rei. The other students broke to pack their things, and I approached him.
“Sensei, I wanted to talk to you real quick about something.”
“Sure. What’s on your mind, Rena?” he asked me in Japanese.
His accent was thick like smoke from winter campfires. I could tell he was from Hokkaido. I played along and continued in Japanese.
“Sensei, I’ve taken a couple classes from you, and it seems like I’ve already learned what you’re teaching.”
“Hmm...Is that so? Well, I don’t have any students that are more advanced.”
“Well, sensei, I was wondering whether I could have one-on-one lessons with you. I’m willing to pay more if I have to.”
“I see. You want to learn that badly?”
“Yes. Can you teach me more?”
	“Rena, To be honest with you, I really don’t know much more Aikido. If you already know what I’ve taught, then I can teach you no more.”
	“I want to learn more. If not Aikido, then something else. Do you know more?”
	“Oh. I see,” He said with a grin. “Rena. Let me ask you one question first. Why do you want to learn martial arts so badly?”
“Well. I’m not really sure. I think it reminds me of home. And it makes me think straight.”
“And?”
He gave me a face that said he knew there was something else.
“And…I need to learn it…for something.”
“And what is this something?”
“It’s…I can’t say.”
“Rena. You know any secret is safe with me. As long as you’re not going to do something foolish.”
“Heh, well…some would think it’s pretty dumb.”
“Just say it and then we’ll see.”
“Umm…”
I looked blankly at some corner in the room and tried to figure out how to word it without sounding too naïve. Sensei was patient, but his stare was bound me to answer. 
“I need to help someone. Someone I love dearly. He’s somewhere he shouldn’t be.”
“Then is this place you speak of, any place you should be?”
“This is a place no one should be. He risks his life everyday just being there, and I wouldn’t be able to live if he died and I didn’t do anything about it.”
“Rena, I can’t let you do that. Aikido or anything else, for that matter, can’t protect you from every danger. You must know which battles to fight and which to let go.”
“I believe that this is a winnable battle. And a battle worth fighting. I don't intend to conquer a nation, I just want to find him.”
“If this place is as dangerous as you say, you may perish in trying to find him. What would your friend think then?”
“That is why I need to learn more.”
He looked at me with a very serious face. The same face my father made when he saw his efforts at persuading me fail right before him. His eyes were dark with thought, unwavering from my own. His finger moved to point at me and it bobbed up and down.
“Rena, you are unchangable. Like a river that has set its course. It's good that your heart is so strong, but someday it will get you into serious trouble.” 
I felt a disappointed tension in the air, until he let out a grin, and finished. 
“But not today. Come to the office. I will show you something.”
I smiled with excitement, and followed him.
In the office, he took a small, dusty box from a tall shelf. The box read “Ninjutsu” in red characters, and my eyes widened with surprise.
“Ninjutsu,” I said. “Like...ninjas?”
“Not the ninjas you know. Ninjutsu is more than just being an assassin. It takes knowledge, patience, cunning. You must know how to strike before you strike.”
“How much of this can you teach me?”
“Enough to keep you as safe as you could be with in a dangerous place. You could fool an army, if you needed to.”
He gave me a grin and a momentary stare before he continued.
“In the case you do come across an army I would suggest fleeing or hiding, of course. But if you must outsmart them or know what they're up to, then you will at least know how to do it the right way. Take this book and study it well. We will begin tomorrow.”
“To-...Tomorrow?”
“Yes”
“But there's no way I can prepare in time.”
“If you can think, you are ready for anything. Now, I must go. Can't be late for the dentist!”
“Sensei, one more thing. How did you know I was planning to go into the war?”
“This is San Francisco! There's nothing dangerous here, except maybe the drivers. War, famine, and drought are really the only places where death may happen any day. And I doubt Ninjutsu would help with the other two.”
“Thank you, sensei.” 
I bowed in respect.
“Thank you for helping me with this. I will not let you down.”
“Oh I'm not worried about that. I can already tell how determined you are. You have a spirit motivated by love. Such is unstoppable.”

