


Chapter 5

 September 26th, 2017
Rena Yong’s Diary


This morning, he left. Damn…It’s so hard to say that…This morning…he left. Well, at least he’s not gone forever. I’ll spare you the story of this morning’s drive. It’s something I'd rather forget. Nothing personal, diary.
In the afternoon, I came home and cried. Just came in, laid right down on the couch and cried. I'm lucky I made it home. People on the highway probably thought I was drunk. In hindsight, maybe I should have grabbed something dry on the way home. 
The days are getting shorter. The whole afternoon passed me right by while I was busy swimming in tears and vegging out on the couch. I eventually woke up at 7 to a dim and cold room. Could still smell David on the couch.
Figured I ought to eat, but I didn’t want to eat out by myself, so I cooked dinner. I just made some spaghetti, fixed two plates, set two places. I looked over the food for a long while. I was never really much into praying, but it felt like a good time to pray, so I closed my eyes and pretended he was sitting across from me, and prayed. Not sure who it was to, or who was listening, but it felt damn good. Still couldn't eat though. The silence had control of my appetite.
In the evening, I went to a local meeting for women who were going through all the same things with their loved ones. I’d heard about it from a flier on the apartment window, and was a bit apprehensive about going at first. I figured I would be the only person who was a basket-case about a friend, but I really needed something to keep me going. I'm starting to realize how reassuring it is to know that other people are looking for help and support for all the same things you are. 
When I got there, they invited me in as one of their own. There were about 15 women all crowded in an apartment, taking turns telling stories about their husbands and brothers and boyfriends. Some of the memories were funny, some of them sad. Some of the women couldn’t keep their composure, so we would pass the tissues around and give each other encouraging words. When my turn came, I already knew what I’d talk about.
Michelle and I met when we were freshmen at UC Berkeley, and sometimes we’d dare each other to do crazy things. One night after our last class on a Friday, she dared me to jump into the bay from a high pier in my underwear. I desperately wanted to dish a dare out to her too, so I agreed. When I jumped, I learned very quickly that the bay was cold; no matter what time of year it was. The chills were advancing so quickly throughout my whole body and my bones started to ache. Michelle was laughing until I told her to help me out. She came to the pier’s edge, but she couldn’t reach me. Shivering, I said
“Michelle…I don't feel good.”
The fear in my voice immediately flipped a switch in her brain, and she looked around for something to fish me out with, but she couldn’t find anything. The whole time, my body was shivering, and then it started to feel numb. She told me to stay put, that she’d call the EMTs and look for someone to help.
By the time she came back, I was already in hypothermia. Luckily, David had been walking back from a late lab class that evening and Michelle found him in less than a minute. David held onto Michelle with his belt, while she reached out to me. I could barely move my own arms to her, but they're all she needed for them to hoist me up and get me back onto shore.
Michelle and David wrapped their arms around me and held me close while we waited for the EMTs. I always find it strange, because I didn't really know either of them that well back then, but in all of my life I've never felt so loved as I did in those moments. Yes, diary, you could analyze how it probably has to do with my Asian parents and my self-insecurities. But aside from all of that, I never really understood before why people would worry themselves so much when their spouse would leave for a one-week trip, or why a dog whines when its owner leaves and then goes wild when they come back. Being alive had limits. And loving someone meant that they could trust you with everything when those limits were broken.
It’s kind of sad now that I think about it… If David or Michelle were ever dying or in trouble, there's nothing I could have done for them. They were both behind impenetrable walls of law and distance. I hated it so much. I felt so…powerless, useless. And it was the same story for everyone in that room. We were all so frustrated at the position in which we'd been placed. This time, we couldn't make it all better.











