


Chapter 7

September 27th, 2017
Rena Yong’s Diary


Diary, what have I done?
Why didn’t I stop him?
Did I want him to go? 
Diary…tell me. When a person has the chance to save a friend, but doesn’t…is it malice or cowardice? Are they the same?
Who have I become? For me to be so careless about his life…Who am I?
I’m no better than the warmongers on capitol hill, than mister patriot pusher, Sergeant Patterson. I’ve done to David nothing less than what they’ve done.
Michelle was so right…she opened my eyes today when we talked. She was furious at me for doing nothing, and now…I just. I want to go back. A day, a month, a year. I want to tell myself that accepting it is betraying the nation. That the greatest things in life are earned. And that plans are ever guaranteed.
Where is my passion? I used to have it years ago. Where did that spark go? Did I slowly hand it over to the office when I came to work everyday? Did I lose it to the screen I stare at? Is it pulsing through this bulb now, watching and missing me as it flies by?
Where did it all go?
I guess it just washed away. Just like these raindrops are washing the heat from the air, feeding it all to the soil and the clay. Strange…I don’t remember it starting to rain.
It’s strange how raindrops creep down windows. How they’ll scurry once and tiptoe later, how they’ll leave behind some droplets only for them to be picked up by some bigger raindrop right behind. I wonder if raindrops ever get lonely falling thousands of feet from birth to death, never once bumping into another raindrop. I wonder what they think of us, making loneliness and detachment from the world the norm. Maybe a raindrop has quite a few things to teach me. Maybe I’ve got quite a lot to learn.
Sorry diary…I’m just going slightly crazy from solitary confinement. I almost want to go to work tomorrow. I can at least see people. Or maybe I should go to jail so I can see Michelle more often. No…maybe that’s a bad idea…
	I feel so alone in my mind here, between the echoes of my own voice. I wonder what they’re both doing tonight…whether they’re thinking of me or if they’re hating me or just forgetting me altogether. 
I need them right now. More than anything else in the world. 














September 27th, 2017
Email to Rena Onuma from David Yong
San Antonio Miltary Medical Center
Fort Sam Houston, Texas


Hey Rena!
I’ve got some down time right now, so I figured I’d email you to see how you were doing.
So…how are you doing? Did you tell Michelle yet? What’d she say? I’m sorry if she got angry.
I’ve been alright. I’ve been pretty busy today and I’m already learning so many things I’ve never gotten exposure to. It’s a lot of hands on, time limited sort of stuff, so they’re definitely keeping me on my toes.
You better not be wasting your time thinking about me! But I’d like it if you responded to this at least.

Much Love,
David



September 27th, 2017
Email to David Yong from Rena Onuma


	David!!!
It feels so good to hear from you! I’m glad you’re doing well where you are!
I did tell Michelle and she was PISSED at me for not doing anything to stop you. I actually started crying. You know, I can’t say I’m not angry at you for refusing to tell her and for not trying to get out of the draft, but I know I’m no better. If I could run it back again, I would have handcuffed you to me and dragged you to get a hearing at the recruitment office. Now all I’ll be doing is protesting and praying for you to be safe.
Time spent thinking of you is definitely not time wasted. Though I did take today off so I could recover a little bit. I visited a group of army wives and sisters today to see if I could find some consolation with them. I told them about the time you and Michelle saved me from the bay, and it made me cry even more. But they rubbed my back and said some kind words to make me feel better. It didn’t really work.
I just wish there was something else I could do. I don’t want you to die. You’re too precious and important to us to die for this war. Plus you owe Michelle an arm wrestling match.
Well, I don’t want to make this too long. Might butt into your busy schedule! Email me back whenever you have time.

More love than you know,
Rena

















