


Chapter 8

September 28th, 2017


I walked into work today to a nearly empty office. Some of the men I’d been working with were about my age, and had been slowly trickling out since the drafting started in June. Apparently, they needed a lot of engineers because most of the fighting in this war was technical in nature, using the air force and navy for the most part. They wanted to stay away from China’s and Russia’s natural advantage of people. It made me afraid because David would be going to war on the ground.
But what was stranger than several men being gone was that today, most of the women I worked with were gone too. Had I missed something? Was everyone out to breakfast or in a meeting? I sat down in my dreaded cubicle, with bare green walls like a fuzzy patina. I turned my computer on and checked my email for a memo. Nothing. My boss, Conner, walked to my desk and said,
“So you’re not protesting, huh?”
“No…why would I be protesting?”
“Oh…you didn’t know? Those interns, Sarah and Katie, got a war protest together with everyone here and are at the recruitment center with signs and all. They’re all insane. They’re lucky I need them to finish their projects. Otherwise, yesterday would’ve been their last here.”
“So…everyone’s protesting? You know, I need the data from Sarah to verify that my tests work.”
“Yea…anything else you can do?”
“Not until I have that data.”
“Alright. Well I guess you can leave then.” 
This made me really happy. I hated working there.
“If you see either of them, tell them they’ve got some explaining to do.”
“Okay. Will do.”
As he walked away I started to think. I was baffled. Why wasn’t I invited to this protest!? I checked my other email, and found nothing. I figured, since I had the day off, I’d go to the protest and find Sarah.
I parked at our apartment on Sutter, and walked to the recruitment center. It was rather far of a walk, but it had been too long since I had seen the details of this city. How the hills and the trees and the sun and the people all mix together to form this city makes it so beautiful. No one human being could ever make something so beautiful as this infinite span of human culture that I was living in.
I could see and hear the protest from blocks away. First the chants, then the bobbing signs, then the faces of raw passion. I looked the recruitment office again, and I was reminded of the last time I had been here. I looked away or else I might be tempted to throw a rock at the windows. Though, that might not have necessarily been a bad thing.
I found Sarah in the front of the protest, chanting loudly and holding a staring contest with the police across the street. I tapped her shoulder, and she turned to the side, looking me up and down with a disappointed look on her face. 
“Why didn’t you invite me?” I asked.
“What?” She couldn’t hear over the voices. I pointed toward the back of the protest, and we walked through the crowd in that direction.
“Why wasn’t I invited to this protest, Sarah?”
“We just forgot. I’m sorry.”
“I don’t believe you.”
“Look, Rena. I don’t have time for this. I’ve gotta get back out there. I could be saving lives now, letting the draftees know they can fight back.”
She turned to leave, but I grabbed her shoulder.
“Sarah, I told you all about David. You knew he was in the war. You didn’t forget.”
“Well you know what, Rena? I’ll tell you why I didn’t invite you. You never even gave a shit about him. I listened to you talk about him day in and day out and not once did you ever talk about saving him. I didn’t invite you because I knew if you came, you’d be doing it just to look good to all of us.”
“What?!”
“Now, excuse me,” She shrugged my hand off her shoulder, “but I have to fight for my brother’s life. He means more to me than David ever did to you.”
She walked back into the throng, leaving me with the guilt. It was midday, but my shadow had never felt bigger than it did now. I would never live this down. Maybe they’d forget eventually, but I never would. The pain just got worse every time I remembered what I hadn’t done when I had the chance. And now, I had to walk home with the guilt sitting on my back and hills to climb. The chanting faded off in the distance as I fast-walked back up Broadway, almost at a jogging pace. When I couldn’t hear them anymore, I just let all the tears go. By now, I had gotten used to crying in public.
	I got back home, but all I could think of was seeing Michelle. I didn’t care if she’d yell at me or if she was too angry to come out and see me. I had hope that she’d see me and make me feel better. She always used to calm me down when I was sad for any reason.
I hopped in my car, and drove straight to the jail. I went through the gate, the detectors, the hallway, and came to the room where I waited anxiously to see if she would come out.
“Wow. Back again?” That voice was soothing on contact.
“Michelle! Thank you for still talking to me.”
“Well, why wouldn’t I?”
“You were mad at me yesterday. I thought you’d never want to talk to me again.”
“Rena, just because I was mad at you doesn’t mean you’re not my friend anymore.”
Hearing this made me so much happier.
“I mean, what kind of friend do you take me for if you thought I’d do that?” She asked.
“Well I just thought you’d still be mad today.”
“I still am, just not so much. Being angry won’t fix anything unless you use it.”
“Okay.”
We paused awkwardly.
She asked, “So umm…is there anything you wanted to talk about?”
“Um not particularly. I just…had to hear your voice. It’s like my pacifier.”
“Haha. Well, you definitely are a baby!”
“Heyy! So I’m a little sensitive.”
“A little?”
“Okay, very.”
“And it’s not just that. You shouldn’t need me every time you’re sad.”
“Well, you’re just comforting that’s all. I don’t need you, but I love your company when I am.”
“Fair enough.”
We paused again, and she restarted, saying,
“Hey. Speaking of me being angry yesterday. I totally blew up on you, and I shouldn’t have. I’m sorry for making you cry.”
“Oh, no don’t worry about it.”
“No I need to. You’re having a hard enough time as it is, and I didn’t need to make it worse.”
“Well, either way, you’re making it much much better by talking with me.”
“Okay. I’m glad…So what was it that you’re sad about?”
“Oh don’t worry…it’s stupid.”
“No, tell me!”
“Well…okay. Today I went into work and an intern there had organized a protest at the recruitment center and didn’t invite me.”
“Oh…that made you cry?”
“No way! I’m not that dramatic.”
“Heh. Sometimes you really are, Rena.”
“Am not. Well, anyway, I went to the protest to ask her why I was the only one not invited, and she called me out, telling me I’m the reason that David is gone. She said I was one of those people who just didn’t care about my loved ones being sent off to war.”
“You listen to me. Don’t believe anyone who tells you this is all your fault. Sure, you could have done something, but it was ultimately David’s decision not to change his own destiny when he was given the chance. Not to mention, we wouldn’t be having this talk if there weren’t conscription in this country.”
“But to think I could have saved his life if I had tried to persuade him more. It’s just as much my fault.”
“No. Rena, do you have mind control? No, of course not. So why should you be blamed for his choice? He had his chance to fight, and he didn’t. Actually, I’m rather angry at him, caus now we're on the outside, watching him live out his choice to do nothing about his situation. And it kills me, and it kills you. He doesn’t see that his life is more than his own. If his decisions put his life in danger then we ought to talk some sense into him, to save his life. Because his life is as important to us as our own. But if he still decides to live in danger, there’s nothing we can do. His decision will kill both of us inside, but we’re powerless to affect him.”
“So do we just wait in pain then?”
“Ahh this is where my secret plan comes in.”
“Uhh…this sounds bad.”
“Ohh, you haven’t heard a bad idea until you hear this.”
“Okay. What’s this terrible idea of yours then?”
“Alright, are you ready?”
“Yea!”
“…You have to wait ‘til I’m out!”
“…did you just…”
“Yea…that’s right. You guys had your laugh with your secret, so I get mine now. Really though, I just need some time to plan it all out.”
“What?! This is far worse than our secret!! You’re going to be keeping this until like thanksgiving!”
“Ooh. Good idea! I’ll make it all epic then, describing it on a holiday.”
“Chelle, this is soooo cruel.”
“Well, look at it this way. If you thought I didn’t have a plan, then you’d be hopeless for two months. Now, at least you’ll have something to look forward to.”







August 6th, 2016


“Michelle, Do you ever get the feeling something bad is going to happen, and you can't explain why?
“Of course! Everyone does. Why?”
“I don't know...I'm just really afraid for some reason.”
“Look, if this is about China and Russia, I assure you  we're all afraid of what's happening.”
“No, it's not that. It's something else.”
“Rena, come on. You're probably just stressing about work or something.”
“No. Work isn't any different than it usually is. Maybe it is just about the news. But I swear. I've never felt like this before about world events. Something really bad for us is going to happen.”
“Rena, you scare me sometimes,” she joked.
“Ha, sorry. This is just really strange. I've never felt like this without a reason I could definitely put my finger on.”
“Well, just don't worry about it for now. If something happens, you can say 'I told ya so'.”
“Okay...” But then I realized what I was afraid of. 	“Hey Michelle?”
“Yea?”
“If David had to go to war, what would you do?”
“Is that what you're afraid of?”
“I think so.”
“Well, I'd probably make sure you two weren't bawling your eyes out like the softies you are, and then help him enforce his right to object. I mean, I think anyone who didn't want to see their best friend die or  be mentally scarred for life would do the same in that situation ”
“Okay...but what about if he was already there.”
“I'd go find him and drag his ass back home! Haha.”
“Haha. No I'm being serious.”
“That's the problem! You're so serious all the time! These thoughts are gonna drive you mad, if they haven't already.”
“Well I just...worry.”
“Don't worry. David's got good friends. We'll take care of him if he needs it. Okay?”
“True.”
“Alright let's get going! The bar isn't open all night!”
“But...I still feel bad about leaving him here.”
“Hey, he's the one who decided to be a doctor. Let him be with his books.”
“Augh, okay.”
“You sure seem to be all over him lately.”





September 28th, 2017
Rena Yong’s Diary
Dear Diary,

Tonight’s will be a short one because I’ve got some actual work tomorrow. 

I still regret not doing anything to save David, but it’s like the whole world was rubbing this in today. 
You know what, world? It’s damn hard enough to get through him leaving. You don’t have to keep telling me that it’s all my fault. 

It’s not.

-Rena
